---
title: Installation
order: 2
layout: page
---

[[designer.installing]]
= Installation

[[designer.installing.eclipse]]
== Installing Eclipse and Plug-Ins

You need to install the following to use Vaadin Designer:

. Eclipse Luna SR2+ as described in
<<dummy/../../framework/installing/installing-eclipse#installing.eclipse,"Installing Eclipse IDE">>

. Vaadin Plug-in for Eclipse as described in
<<dummy/../../framework/installing/installing-eclipse#installing.eclipse.plugin,"Installing Vaadin Plugin for Eclipse">>

. Vaadin Designer from link:http://vaadin.com/eclipse[vaadin.com/eclipse]


Vaadin Designer is compatible with Eclipse Luna (and later) available from
link:http://www.eclipse.org/downloads[www.eclipse.org/downloads]. We recommend
choosing __Eclipse IDE for Java EE Developers__.

If you're using an existing install of Eclipse Luna, please make sure it is
up-to-date. Eclipse Luna versions prior to the SR2 version had a nasty bug that
will cause problems for several plug-ins.

Vaadin Designer is installed together with the Vaadin Plug-in for Eclipse, from
the same Eclipse update-site. In Eclipse, do "Help > Install New Software",
press [guibutton]#Add...# next to the [guilabel]#Work with select#, enter
[literal]#++Vaadin++# as name and [uri]#http://vaadin.com/eclipse# as location.

If you already have the Vaadin plug-in installed, just choose to Work with the
Vaadin update site. Make sure the whole Vaadin category is selected (or at least
Vaadin Designer), then click [guibutton]#Next# to review licensing information
and finalize the install. Please restart Eclipse when prompted.

Once installed, Vaadin Designer can be kept up-to-date by periodically running
"Help > Check for Updates".


[[designer.installing.license]]
== License

The first time you start the Vaadin Designer, it will ask for a license key. You
can obtain a free trial-license, purchase a stand-alone perpetual license, or
use the license included with your Pro Tools subscription. See
<<dummy/../../framework/addons/addons-cval#addons.cval,"Installing Commercial
Vaadin Add-on Licence">> for instructions for installing the license.

Please note that a separate license key is required for each developer. If you
choose not input any license (even trial), you will be unable to save your work.

If you for any reason need to remove or change a valid license, it is located in
[filename]#~/.vaadin.designer.developer.license#.


[[designer.installing.uninstalling]]
== Uninstalling

If you want to remove Vaadin Designer from your Eclipse installation, go to
"Help > Installation Details", select [guilabel]#Vaadin Designer# from the list,
then click [guibutton]#Uninstall#.
